Before you read onwards, remember goblins are stronger and cooler than Zamorak.

Zamorak (/ˈzæməræk/ ZAM-ur-ack) is the god of chaos, power, and destruction, as well as personal ambitions and change. 
Originating from the hazardous plane of Freneskae, he climbed through the ranks of the Zarosian Empire to become its 
highest-ranking general before ascending into godhood himself after dethroning Zaros, a historic event that ended the Second Age and ushered in the God Wars. 
Throughout the Third Age, he and the other gods who remained battled over Gielinor until Guthix woke from his slumber and banished the gods with the Edicts of Guthix. 
After the fall of the Edicts with Guthix's death, Zamorak was the second god to return to Gielinor after Saradomin.

While no formal institution that teaches his beliefs exist in the Sixth Age, there are disparate groups and factions, such as the Cult of Hazeel, 
the ZMI, and the Kinshra, who follow the god, if not his philosophy in its entirety. Many powerful Mahjarrat who survive to this day also 
claim allegiance to the god who once led them in revolt against the Empire.

History

Zamorak began his life as a Mahjarrat, a tribe of the race collectively known as Dreams of Mah. Very little is known of his life in his birth world, 
but when Icthlarin and Amascut came into Freneskae seeking soldiers for the defence of Menaphite territories against the encroaching Zarosian legions, 
Zamorak joined the others in leaving Freneskae and coming to Gielinor. When the Mahjarrat turned against Menaphites near the end of the war, Zamorak followed the majority and joined Zaros as well.

As a Zarosian Mahjarrat, Zamorak was given the rank and authority of a legatus, commander of a whole legion. His military prowess did not go unnoticed, 
and after an unspecified length of time passed, he was granted the rank of Legatus Maximus, the highest-ranking military commander in the Zarosian Empire. 
This was partly prompted by Azzanadra's own promotion as Pontifex Maximus, a role that oversaw the civil infrastructure of the burgeoning Empire.

Near the end of the Second Age, Zamorak planned and successfully executed a palace coup against the god Zaros, having attracted followers for his radical 
stance against what he saw was stagnation of an empire at the limit of its growth. Many of his associates in this coup were Mahjarrat, 
some of who missed the brutal but simple life of Freneskae where the strong ruled over the weak, and others who were disgruntled at what they felt was a rank 
beneath their station. With the help of two Elder Artefacts, the Catalyst and the Siphon, he seemingly slew Zaros and ascended into divinity. 
This act of betrayal would mark the beginning of the end of the Zarosian Empire, as well as the beginning of the Third Age and four millennia of warfare across Gielinor known as the God Wars. 
Towards the end of the God Wars, Zamorak found the Stone of Jas and, in a desperate bid to stop an alliance of gods seeking to destroy him, reduced the Zarosian 
territory of Forinthry to a wasteland known today as the Wilderness. This explosion awoke the sleeping god of balance, Guthix, who banished all the major gods of Gielinor with the Edicts of Guthix, 
including Zamorak.

Following the assassination of Guthix, Zamorak was the second god to return to Gielinor after his arch rival, Saradomin, at the beginning of the Sixth Age. 
They fought each other at the Battle of Lumbridge, and while Zamorak lost, he narrowly escaped with help from his half-Mahjarrat general Moia. 
Along with the other major gods, Zamorak dismissed the idea of gods competing for the Stone of Jas, as proposed by Sliske, the Mahjarrat who assassinated Guthix. 
After Zamorak rediscovered the Stone and used it to regain the power he had lost to Saradomin, he attempted to make off with it before Sliske got hold of the Stone. 
He then sent his forces to compete with those of Seren, Zaros, and Sliske to claim a large pool of anima unearthed in the Heart of Gielinor. 
When the Mahjarrat noticed their power was fading away, they gathered at Freneskae at Zaros's behest to perform a final Ritual of Rejuvenation, 
reversing Mah's drain on the Mahjarrat and ending the need for any more rituals. In exchange, he entered a pact with Zaros to undermine Sliske's endgame. 
Zamorak competed with other major gods in Sliske's Endgame but was among those ejected from the competition during the showdown between the World Guardian and Sliske after 
the dragonkin Kerapac shattered the Stone of Jas.

With the subsequent looming threat of the Elder Gods, Zamorak was called to assist other young gods in stabilising the three remaining Elder God eggs to keep them from hatching. 
Believing Seren wanted to keep the young and Elder Gods' forces in an ongoing stalemate and that Gielinor was already doomed, he eventually betrayed the alliance and left, hoping to die a free god.

Zamorak returned following the death of Iaia to lead an overwhelming demon army against the other major gods' weakened forces, 
but his efforts were halted when the World Guardian reestablished Guthix’s edicts, banishing him once again.

Ideology

Zamorak espouses the belief that the strong must not be hindered by the weak. Trials and tribulations, he argues, act as filters against those too apathetic to fend for themselves, 
while others that step up to the new challenge become strengthened by it. He is noted to be particularly egalitarian regarding the origin-species of an individual as long as he can perform; 
this trait is most visible in the form of his acceptance of General Viggora, the first human warrior to be raised to the rank of general in the Zarosian Empire. 
Likewise, Moia, considered a curiosity at best and an abomination at worst by many of the Mahjarrat, was allowed to rise to the position of Zamorak's lieutenant 
based on her personal accomplishments and the willingness to become malleable (morally and physically) for the sake of survival.

Zamorak has no particular qualms about how to conduct war, as seen with his destruction of Forinthry to escape his rival gods' at the time. 
He does not mind resorting to tricks and deceptions when necessary, something which has gained him the allegiance of many demons and disgust of enemies. 
He is one of the few gods who is not disturbed by raising the dead instead of letting them rest in peace, and as such, frequently employs necromancers in his armies. 
He is particularly picky when it comes to mortal necromancers - those who wish to join are forced to spend a week in the Shadow Realm, and if they remain mostly intact, 
they are allowed to work for him, as he cites that they have to be prepared to do so.

Zamorak is cool but goblins are still cooler!

